GFX & Shader Documentation (#472)
fragcolor-xyz/shards: docs/docs/reference/shards/Shader/index.md

# Shaders

> Shaders are written using a subset of the regular shards language, in addition to some of the shader specific shards listed here

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Shaders are written using a subset of the regular shards language, in addition to some of the shader specific shards listed here.
```

## Supported operations

### Variables

```clojure
0.0 >= .float-var ; Set
3.14 > .float-var ; Update
1.0 = .const-var ; Constant
```

### Vector types

```clojure
(Float3 0.0) >= .v3-zero
(Float3 1.0 0.0 0.0) >= .v3-forward
```

### Vector swizzles

```clojure
.v3-forward (Take 0) >= .x
.v3-forward (Take [2 1 0]) >= .v3-reversed
.v3-forward (Take [2 1]) >= .v2-zy
```

### Sub flow

```clojure
.v3-forward
(| (Take 0) >= .x)
(| (Take 1) >= .y)
(| (Take 2) >= .z)
```

### Push (for matrix types only)

> Push works for building matrix types out of vectors, but with the constraint that it they can't be used from within branching control flows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Push` works for building matrix types out of vectors, but with the constraint that the matrices can't be used from within branching control flows.
```

Author: Reworded

(Float3 0.0 .float-var .float-var) >= .v3 ; (0.0 1.0 1.0)
```

### Vector contructors

```clojure
1.0 = .float-var
(Float3 0.0 .float-var .float-var) >= .v3 ; (0.0 1.0 1.0)
(Float4 .float-var 0.0 4.0 .float-var) >= .v4 ; (1.0 0.0 4.0 1.0)
```

### Matrix multiplication

```clojure
(Float3 ...) >> .mat-0
(Float3 ...) >> .mat-0
...
(Float3 ...) >> .mat-1
(Float3 ...) >> .mat-1
...
(Float3 ...) >= .v3

; Matrix * Matrix = Matrix
.mat-0 (Math.MatMul .mat-1) >= .mat-2

; Matrix * Vector = Vector
.mat-2 (Math.MatMul .v3) >= .v3-transformed
```

### Comparisons

```clojure
3.4 (IsMoreEqual 3.0) >= .bool ; (true)
3.4 (IsLess 3.0) > .bool ; (false)
```

### Branches

```clojure
3.4 = .v
.v (If (IsLess 3.0)
      :Then (-> ...)
      :Else (-> ...))

.v (When (IsLess 3.0)
      (-> ...))

.v (When (-> (IsLess 3.0) (And) (IsGreater 1.0))
      (-> ...))
```

### Combinational logic

```clojure
3.4 = .v
.v (When (-> (IsLess 3.0) (And) (IsGreater 1.0))
      (-> ...))
.v (When (-> (IsLess 3.0) (Or) (IsGreater 1.0))
      (-> ...))
```

### For range loop

```clojure
(ForRange 0 32 (->
  = .i
  ...
  ))
```

### Function-like wire evaluation

> Pure wires are supported, they can be ran by using do and passing an input as a scalar/vector/matrix type. Their output is returned

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pure Wires are supported. They can be run using `Do` and passing an input as a scalar/vector/matrix type. Their output is returned.
```

```clojure
(defpure rotation-matrix
  >= .input
  .input (Math.Cos) >= .c
  .input (Math.Sin)
  (| >= .s)
  (| (Math.Negate) >= .neg-s)
  (Float2 .c .s) >> .result
  (Float2 .neg-s .c) >> .result
  .result ; Output a 2x2 matrix
)

0.45 (Do rotation-matrix) >= .mat2-2 ; This will contain the result from the wire

```

Non-pure wires are also supported they will also accept an input value and output their output.

> In addition they will also capture any variables referenced that are defined in parent wires

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition they will also capture any variables referenced that are defined in parent Wires.
```

```clojure
(defwire sub-logic
  .global (Math.Cos) >= .v
  2.0 (Math.Add .v)
)

3.0 >== .global
(Do sub-logic) >= .v1
2.0 > .global
(Do sub-logic) >= .v2
```

!!! info "Partial support"

>     Only values that are read from parent wires are currently supported, trying to update a variable defined in a parent wire will have no effect on that variable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Currently, only values that are read from parent Wires are supported. Trying to update a variable defined in a parent Wire will have no effect on that variable.
```
